When I first began serving at Bethel,
I’d call home to speak with my family
and my mother would always ask,
“Have they told you when the date
of Armageddon is?”
Though she was being humorous
and didn’t expect an answer,
her question reveals what we all long for
—Jehovah’s promised new world.
Maybe you have, in a sense,
asked Jehovah that question,
“How much longer, Jehovah?”
Or you’ve said to Jehovah:
“I’m exhausted.
“I don’t know how much longer
I can keep going.
“Please, Jehovah, when will your promises
for a world of lasting peace,
refreshment, and relief from the pressures
of this world come true?”
We all likely feel this way
from time to time.
What can help us not give up,
not give out, in our spiritual battle?
Note the words of Jesus at Mark 13:29.
Notice what he says: “Likewise also you,
“when you see these things happening,
know that he is near at the doors.”
What things would we see happening?
Prophecy being fulfilled.
When we recognize Bible prophecies
being fulfilled before our eyes,
our faith is fortified.
We see that the end is imminent.
We recognize that we’re almost done.
That helps us not give out.
What are some of these prophecies?
You’re familiar with the prophecies
of earthquakes,
“wars and reports of wars,”
food shortages,
and disease all happening at once.
“You see these things happening.”
We see the diminished love of God
and the deteriorating attitude
of people in general,
as foretold in 2 Timothy chapter 3.
Second Timothy 3:13 says:
“Wicked men and impostors
will advance from bad to worse.”
“You see these things happening.”
As foretold, “this good news
of the Kingdom” is being preached worldwide
—now in over 1,000 languages.
“You see these things happening.”
As a result of Christ’s rule,
the knowledge of Jehovah
is abundantly overflowing.
“You see these things happening.”
And what about Isaiah 45:18?
Here Jehovah calls himself
the “Maker” of the earth,
“who did not create it simply for nothing,
but formed it to be inhabited.”
Today, scientists say that the world
is on the brink of becoming uninhabitable.
They warn that if action to stop
global warming is not taken quickly,
its compounding effects
will become irreversible.
At Revelation 11:18,
the Bible foretold that in our day,
man would be “ruining the earth,”
and it also assures us
that Jehovah will step in
and not let the earth be completely ruined.
Some may wonder how much worse
things will get.
Interestingly, at Luke 17:20,
Jesus said this
—Luke 17:20:
“The Kingdom of God
is not coming with striking observableness.”
This means that world conditions
during the last days
would not be so extreme
that people would be forced to believe
that the end is near.
As Matthew 24:37-39 indicates,
they would still be “eating and drinking,”
getting married,
and able to carry on their everyday lives.
How should this affect us?
It should fortify us not to give up.
At Mark 13:35,
Jesus said we must “keep on the watch.”
This means to stay awake and be on guard.
And in the parallel account in Matthew 24,
Jesus connects this with being ready.
What will help us to do this
when we feel so exhausted?
Where can we get strength
to keep up the fight?
In a word—trust.
We all love Jehovah.
We want to be convinced
of Jehovah’s loyal love for us individually.
Can we trust that he’ll always
be there to help us?
Notice on-screen the assurance Jehovah gives
at Hebrews 13:5:
“I will never leave you,
and I will never abandon you.”
Jehovah has been sustaining us.
Think how he sustains you.
Maybe you’ve experienced
the ravages of a natural disaster;
Jehovah has sustained you.
Maybe you’ve dealt
with the loss of a loved one;
Jehovah has sustained you.
Whatever trial we’ve gone through,
we can see how Jehovah has helped us.
This confirms for us
that he’ll sustain us in the future.
And we have the confidence
that’s stated at Psalm 46:1, 2:
“God is our refuge and strength,
“a help that is readily found
in times of distress.
“That is why we will not fear,
though the earth undergoes change,
though the mountains topple
into the depths of the sea.”
These emphatic expressions leave no doubt
that Jehovah will care for us.
Why is this reminder so important?
Well, verse 6 of Hebrews chapter 13
links trust with courage.
Notice what it says:
“So that we may be of good courage and say:
‘‘‘Jehovah is my helper;
I will not be afraid.
What can man do to me?’”
Notice it doesn’t say our  or their  helper.
It says “my helper.”
We love Jehovah.
We can also be absolutely convinced
that Jehovah loves us
and will help us individually.
At times, it can be difficult
to trust that Jehovah loves us personally
and will act in our behalf.
What can help build our trust
in Jehovah’s love?
Let’s discuss three ways.
First, Proverbs 15
—Proverbs 15, notice verse 9:
“Jehovah detests the way of the wicked one,
but he loves the one
who pursues righteousness.”
“He loves the one
who pursues
[or, chases after] righteousness.”
He knows we can’t be perfectly righteous.
But he loves us for trying our best,
as he said, ‘for pursuing righteousness.’
He loves us because we don’t quit.
We can trust that he’ll never abandon us
because we don’t give up
in pursuing righteousness.
Second, pour out your heart to Jehovah.
Lamentations 2:19 says this
—Lamentations 2:19:
“Pour out your heart like water
before the face of Jehovah.”
It doesn’t say,
“Pour out your mind” or “your thoughts”
but “pour out your heart”
—that includes our feelings,
our concerns, our anxieties.
We pour out our heart
like one pours out water
—not holding anything back.
When we express to our heavenly Father
our love and appreciation for him,
when we tell him our concerns and desires,
and when we ask for his direction,
we show that we value
our friendship with him.
What will be the result for you?
The more you pour out your heart like water
and feel his personal response to you,
the more you’ll sense his love for you
and the more you’ll trust
that he’ll never abandon you.
Your gratitude for Jehovah’s
enduring love will increase.
And, third, remember that trials
do not mean a loss of Jehovah’s favor.
Our enemy knows that feeling close to Jehovah
is the source of our strength.
So he’ll try to undermine our confidence,
and he hopes that we break away from Jehovah.
For example, when Job
was undergoing a severe trial,
his false comforters lyingly said
that the reason for these trials
was that he’d lost Jehovah’s favor.
Jehovah reminded Job to look at creation
and to see His love and wisdom.
How did faithful Job respond?
He said at Job 42:5:
“My ears have heard about you,
but now I do see you with my eyes.”
We may wonder if we’ve lost Jehovah’s favor.
We should ask Jehovah to help us see him
and see his loyal love for us every day.
Ask him to help you use this trial
as a stepping stone to love
and trust him even more.
We’ve discussed one way
we get ready for the upcoming events
—build our trust that Jehovah
has loyal love for us individually.
Trusting that Jehovah will never abandon us
gives us the strength to keep up the fight
and keep on the watch.
At Ephesians 6:16,
faith, or trust, in Jehovah
is compared to a shield
—a shield “with which you [can] extinguish
all the wicked one’s burning arrows,”
or all of Satan’s spiritual attacks.
For example, when we hear lies about Jehovah,
his organization,
and those he’s appointed to take the lead,
we will not be shaken.
We won’t give up or give out.
We know the prophecy
at Matthew 24:45 has been fulfilled.
Jehovah has lovingly provided a slave
who’s “faithful and discreet.”
We recognize that Jehovah
provides spiritual food and direction
through this body of men at the right time.
We’re not left floundering
or trying to find our way.
Therefore, we remain obedient
and responsive to the direction we receive.
We never dismiss it,
even if it doesn’t appear practical
from a human standpoint.
Trusting in Jehovah’s loyal love
has saved his people in the past.
At 2 Chronicles 20:1, 2,
it tells us that Jehoshaphat
learned that a coalition of nations
—“a large crowd . . . from the region
of the sea”—
were coming against him.
Jehoshaphat already had the habit
of turning to Jehovah.
“He resolved to search for Jehovah.”
How did he and his faithful subjects do this?
Jehoshaphat poured his heart out
like water to Jehovah.
Notice in verse 12
how he expresses
his complete trust in Jehovah:
“For we are powerless before this large crowd
that is coming against us;
“and we do not know what we should do,
but our eyes are toward you.”
How did Jehovah respond?
Notice verse 15.
Jehovah sent Jahaziel to reassure them:
“Do not be afraid or be terrified
because of this large crowd,
for the battle is not yours but God’s.”
The strategy that Jehoshaphat followed
didn’t seem practical
from a human standpoint.
Jehoshaphat appointed singers
dressed “in holy adornment”
to praise Jehovah.
And how unusual that he put them
in front of the armed men!
Were they singing songs about how Jehovah
defeated their enemies in past wars?
No.
They sang about Jehovah’s loyal love.
What was the result?
Jehovah confused their enemies,
and they attacked each other.
What lessons can we learn from this account?
Trusting Jehovah includes
trusting his representatives.
The lifesaving direction we receive
from Jehovah’s organization
may not appear practical
from a human standpoint.
But we recognize
the fulfillment  of the prophecy
at Matthew 24:45
about “the faithful and discreet slave,”
and we’re ready to obey
any instruction they provide.
Yes, getting ready includes building trust
and being convinced that Jehovah
will deliver us from the wicked one.
Trusting Him will help us understand
the prophetic role
of “the faithful and discreet slave”
during this time of the end
when Jehovah is using them
to provide lifesaving direction.
This direction is helping us to stay ready.
Jehovah has sustained us in the past,
and he sustains us now.
Seeing these things happening
can also fortify and strengthen us.
Many of you have been fighting
to “keep on the watch”
for many years.
Now the end is clearly in sight.
We don’t want to give up now.
Notice the reassurance at Galatians 6:9
—Galatians 6:9:
“So let us not give up in doing what is fine,
“for in due time we will reap
if we do not tire out.”
Because of our imperfect flesh
and the efforts of Satan
and this wicked world,
we must constantly battle
negative influences.
Some of you dear brothers and sisters
must fight hard every day
to maintain your relationship with Jehovah.
Don’t give up!
Your fight has not been in vain.
You’ve made the right choices.
Jehovah has seen your loyal love for him,
and he treasures your devotion.
Time and time again,
you’ve made sacrifices
and left your comfort zone
to give Jehovah your best,
to stay active in the ministry,
to keep taking in spiritual food,
and to teach your children
how to speak about Jehovah.
Jehovah loves you dearly for this
and will loyally continue
to help you until the battle is won.
Do not give up now!
And you young ones,
Jehovah loves you too.
He knows that you’re growing up
in a world that’s broken.
He knows that it can be hard for you
to maintain hope for the future.
Please, never forget that your God,
your heavenly Father, loves you dearly.
Never forget that your future is bright.
Whether we’re young or old or in between,
we will not give up.
We’re so close.
We see these things happening
with our own eyes.
So we’ll keep on the watch,
we’ll trust Jehovah with all our hearts,
we’ll trust Jehovah’s arrangements,
and we will not give out
in our spiritual battle,
because we will reap
rich blessings soon—very soon.